Sara/mkt 198 update pricingbilling across ecosystem (#389)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-app/pricing-and-billing.mdx

---
slug: pricing-and-billing
append_help_link: true
title: Pricing and billing
description: "Semgrep CLI and CI are free to use. Semgrep App has both free and paid tiers, each with their own features and levels of support."
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

# Pricing and billing

The following Semgrep tools are free to use:

* Semgrep CLI
* Semgrep CI
* Semgrep App (through the Community tier)

Semgrep CLI is free open-source software (FOSS), licensed under LGPL 2.1. Semgrep CI is source-available. All features for both Semgrep CLI and Semgrep CI are free.

> Semgrep App, which builds on Semgrep CLI and CI, enables developer teams to create their own institutional code standards, enforce them, and analyze findings. Semgrep App has both free and paid tiers.

Reviewer: Maybe we can shortly say again what is Semgrep CLI, what is Semgrep CI... I know CLI and CI are common terms, but it might be good to mention this again and again.

Author: Added a description for both!

Semgrep App has three tiers:

| Tier | Price | Description |
| ---- | ------- | -------- | 
| **Community** | Free | For general-purpose security scanning.  |
| **Team** | $40/mo per seat | For the enforcement of company-specific coding standards, private rules, and the analysis of findings.  |
| **Enterprise** | Custom pricing | For custom solutions, including deployment into virtual private clouds (VPCs) with dedicated technical support.  |

Semgrep App integrates with a GitHub or GitLab account at either the organizational or individual level. There is no limit to the number of members in an organization for all tiers.

Billing depends on the number of **seats**. Any member whose code has been scanned by Semgrep App takes up a seat.

Members who do **not** run any scans on their code do not need a seat and are not billed. Semgrep Team tier features apply to the entire organization, even if not all members are billed for a seat.

### Comparing free and paid tier features

#### Organizational management

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- |
| **Member limit** | ♾️ unlimited | ♾️  unlimited | ♾️  unlimited |

> | **Project limit** |♾️  unlimited | ♾️  unlimited | ♾️  unlimited |

Author: I thought this too, but taking the whole comparison section in its entirety, for consistency, it's a table, same as the rest of the feature comparisons.

#### Findings, language support, and rules

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- | 
| **Findings retention** | 1 month | 1 year | 1 year+ (custom) |
| **Community rule registry** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Named rules** | ✔️ yes | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Private rules** | ❌ no | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Custom rule messages** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Custom language support** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

> * **Named rules** are rules that have been saved through the [Playground](https://semgrep.dev/editor). Named rules  created by Community tier members are public and available in the Playground.

Reviewer: We can say in one sentence what is Playground, so people do not have to open the link.

Author: Will do!

* **Custom rule messages** can be applied to public and private rules.

#### Deployment, integrations, and notifications

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- | 
| **Automatic CI/CD** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Slack notifications** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Email notifications** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Webhook integration** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Jira integration** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **VPC deployment** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

* There is no limit to the number of integrations or notification channels. You can make more than one integration of any type.
* **Webhook integration** uses a generic webhook to send JSON messages. These messages are triggered when a policy is changed, a new scan runs, or a new finding has emerged.
* **Jira integration** allows organizations to directly create Jira tickets from a finding.

#### Authentication

| Feature                                  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| ------                                    | --------- | ------- | -------- | 

> | **GitHub/GitLab single sign-on (SSO)** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **GitHub or GitLab single sign-on (SSO)** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
```

| **SAML SSO** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Role-based access control (RBAC)** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Custom authentication features** | ❌ no |  ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

* Available **RBAC roles** are `admin` and `user`.

#### Support

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- | 
| **Slack support** | Community Slack | Private Slack channel | Private Slack channel |
| **Semgrep support portal** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Customer success manager** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |
| **Dedicated and customized onboarding** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

* Request support and track the status of your tickets through the [Semgrep Support Portal](https://support.semgrep.dev/hc/en-us), which is available 8 hours a day, 5 days a week.

## Determining your plan needs

### Number of seats

Within your team or organization, assess the number of members whose code needs scanning. That will determine the number of seats needed for purchase.

> For example, if a project has 4 unique contributors who push code during the billing period and Semgrep runs on their merge/pull requests, only 4 seats are required even if the organization has a total of 10 members. If these unique contributors commit to many projects within the same organization, they will only be counted once, so no additional seats are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a project has 4 unique contributors who push code during the billing period and Semgrep runs on their merge or pull requests, only 4 seats are required even if the organization has a total of 10 members. If these unique contributors commit to many projects within the same organization, they will only be counted once, so no additional seats are required.
```

All members of the organization, regardless of seat status, have access to paid features for the chosen tier. This means that project managers and other non-programming roles can still view the Semgrep App dashboard.

### Plan limits

Should your plan exceed the limit, we will reach out and come up with a new plan that fits your needs.

## Upgrading your plan

To upgrade to the **Team tier** through **credit card**:

1. In the Settings page, select the Payment tab.
2. Select the number of seats to purchase.
3. Fill in your payment details.

![Screenshot of Semgrep App payment menu](../img/billing-and-pricing-payment.png)<br />

To upgrade to the **Enterprise tier**, contact us through our [Semgrep for organizations](https://semgrep.dev/contact) page.

### Billing

Team tier users are charged monthly. Enterprise tier users are charged at an agreed-upon billing cycle. For any concerns, send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev) to get in touch with our sales team.

## Modifying or canceling your plan

> To modify or cancel your plan,  send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify or cancel your plan, send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev).
```

## Paying for your plan

Pay through the following methods: 

> * **Pay using your credit card.** The payment will be processed through Stripe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<dl>
<dt>Pay using your credit card.</dt>
<dd>The payment will be processed through Stripe.</dd>
```

> * **Pay through a purchase order or invoice.** Send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev) to get in touch with our sales team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<dt>Pay through a purchase order or invoice.</dt>
<dd>Send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev) to get in touch with our sales team.</dd>
</dl>
```

---
slug: pricing-and-billing
append_help_link: true
title: Pricing and billing
description: "Semgrep CLI and CI are free to use. Semgrep App has both free and paid tiers, each with their own features and levels of support."
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

# Pricing and billing

The following Semgrep tools are free to use:

* Semgrep CLI
* Semgrep CI
* Semgrep App (through the Community tier)

Semgrep CLI is free open-source software (FOSS), licensed under LGPL 2.1. It is a fast static analysis command line tool for finding bugs and enforcing code standards. Semgrep CI is a source-available Docker image for running Semgrep in CI environments. All features for both Semgrep CLI and Semgrep CI are free.

> Semgrep App, which builds on Semgrep CLI and CI, enables developer teams to create their own institutional code standards, enforce them, and analyze findings. Semgrep App has both free and paid tiers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semgrep App, which builds on Semgrep CLI and CI, enables developer and security teams to create their own institutional code standards, enforce them, and analyze findings. Semgrep App has both free and paid tiers.
```

| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- |
| **Member limit** | ♾️ unlimited | ♾️  unlimited | ♾️  unlimited |
| **Project limit** |♾️  unlimited | ♾️  unlimited | ♾️  unlimited |

#### Findings, language support, and rules

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- | 
| **Findings retention** | 1 month | 1 year | 1 year+ (custom) |
| **Community rule registry** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Named rules** | ✔️ yes | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Private rules** | ❌ no | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Custom rule messages** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Custom language support** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

* **Named rules** are rules that have been saved through the [Playground](https://semgrep.dev/editor). The Playground is a live editor where you can write your rule patterns and test them on sample code. Named rules created by Community tier members are public and available in the Playground.
* **Custom rule messages** can be applied to public and private rules.

#### Deployment, integrations, and notifications

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- | 

> | **Automatic CI/CD** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 

Reviewer 2: I’m not quite sure what is meant by “Automatic CI/CD” — is it automatic scanning?

Author: This was intended to be a shortened form of "Automatic CI/CD integration" from the pricing page. I realize it lost its context. Have corrected this by completing it as above and by adding the following description: "**Automatic CI/CD integration means that repositories added to Semgrep are scanned as part of the code repository's CI pipeline when a pull request is made.**"

| **Slack notifications** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Email notifications** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 
| **Webhook integration** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Jira integration** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **VPC deployment** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

* There is no limit to the number of integrations or notification channels. You can make more than one integration of any type.
* **Webhook integration** uses a generic webhook to send JSON messages. These messages are triggered when a policy is changed, a new scan runs, or a new finding has emerged.
* **Jira integration** allows organizations to directly create Jira tickets from a finding.

#### Authentication

| Feature                                  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| ------                                    | --------- | ------- | -------- | 

> | **GitHub or GitLab single sign-on (SSO)** | ✔️ yes | ✔️  yes  | ✔️  yes | 

Reviewer 2: Should we add a caveat that GitLab SSO is only available for users of GitLab.com, not for users of GitLab self-managed?

Author: Have added this caveat in. Thank you for the catch!

| **SAML SSO** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Role-based access control (RBAC)** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Custom authentication features** | ❌ no |  ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

* Available **RBAC roles** are `admin` and `user`.

#### Support

| Feature  | Community | Team | Enterprise |
| -------  | --------- | ------- | -------- | 
| **Slack support** | Community Slack | Private Slack channel | Private Slack channel |
| **Semgrep support portal** | ❌ no | ✔️  yes | ✔️  yes |
| **Customer success manager** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |
| **Dedicated and customized onboarding** | ❌ no | ❌ no | ✔️  yes |

Notes:

> * Request support and track the status of your tickets through the [Semgrep Support Portal](https://support.semgrep.dev/hc/en-us), which is available 8 hours a day, 5 days a week.

Reviewer 2: IMO this reads as if the website is only available 8x5, but it’s in fact the (human) support that is available 8x5. The support portal is available for requesting support and tracking status of tickets all the time.

Author: Good catch. I have corrected this.

### Number of seats

Within your team or organization, assess the number of members whose code needs scanning. That will determine the number of seats needed for purchase.

For example, if a project has 4 unique contributors who push code during the billing period and Semgrep runs on their merge or pull requests, only 4 seats are required even if the organization has a total of 10 members. If these unique contributors commit to many projects within the same organization, they will only be counted once, so no additional seats are required.

All members of the organization, regardless of seat status, have access to paid features for the chosen tier. This means that project managers and other non-programming roles can still view the Semgrep App dashboard.

### Plan limits

Should your plan exceed the limit, we will reach out and come up with a new plan that fits your needs.

## Upgrading your plan

To upgrade to the **Team tier** through **credit card**:

1. In the Settings page, select the Payment tab.
2. Select the number of seats to purchase.
3. Fill in your payment details.

![Screenshot of Semgrep App payment menu](../img/billing-and-pricing-payment.png)<br />

> To upgrade to the **Enterprise tier**, contact us through our [Semgrep for organizations](https://semgrep.dev/contact) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upgrade to the **Enterprise tier**, please [contact us](https://semgrep.dev/contact).
```

### Billing

> Team tier users are charged monthly. Enterprise tier users are charged at an agreed-upon billing cycle. For any concerns, send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev) to get in touch with our sales team.

Reviewer 2: Re monthly charges, that’s true for the team tier users who pay via credit card (but not all team tier users pay that way).

Author: Have corrected this. Thank you.

## Modifying or canceling your plan

To modify or cancel your plan, send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev).

## Paying for your plan

Pay through the following methods: 

<dl>
<dt>Pay using your credit card.</dt>
<dd>The payment will be processed through Stripe.</dd>
<dt>Pay through a purchase order or invoice.</dt>

> <dd>Send an email to [billing@r2c.dev](mailto:billing@r2c.dev) to get in touch with our sales team.</dd>

Reviewer 2: For some reason it seems this email link isn’t rendering properly. I have stared at it and can’t figure out what’s different here vs. other places that email is used similarly.

Author: It was my mistake for not checking. Mixing tags and markdown syntax in the same line is not recommended. Corrected by using anchor tags.
